the United Kingdom is a country and that
country is made up of the countries of
England Wales Scotland and Northern
Ireland all of which two countries so
the word country is overused but we're
here to country talk about the country
of England and the country of Scotland
country specifically their border which
is old and contested and surprising our
favourite welcome to map men where the
men and here's the map it all started
hundreds of years ago when Roman Emperor
Hadrian decided this part of Britain was
worth it but this part probably not so
much and so he built a war sending a
message to any approaching army that if
you want to attack us you're going to
have to place at least one hand on this
stone and literally hop over south of
the border became England north of the
border became Scotland since Hadrian the
border between the two countries has
ding-dong back and forth of it not least
around this poor town barrack upon tweed
which has swap countries fourteen times
although technically in England for now
both upon tweed feels really Scottish
they read Scottish newspapers their
football team plays in the Scottish
League and their accent is a weird mix
of Scottish and Geordie
excuse me would you say something oh hi
i'm antinea god what a tool a wit you
how can a boot people got so confused
about which country barrack was in the
official declarations of war in the
nineteenth century had to specify you
are at war with England Scotland and
barrack upon tweed one particular war
with Russia forgot to mention barrack in
the peace declaration which means that
barrack was technically still at war
with Russia until 1961 they under
cleared war on each other in a
ridiculous ceremony where the mayor of
barrack declared the good people of
Moscow can now sleep soundly in their
bed the Russians responded by not
knowing anything about it the England
Scotland border remained significant
today it's well known that the Scots
hate the English but the English have
never understood why those backwards
Celts are such a bunch of whinging
morons well that's what you get with a
border that has hundreds of years of
history hundreds you say hundreds I say
try 400 million Wow tell me more I've
bloody well well this is what the world
looked like half a billion years ago
well I know even mutiny biologists but
that looks like around the time the
first grapdelites and cephalopods were
formed exactly but at this point England
and Scotland are thousands of miles
apart
the land set to spawn Sean Connery is
here and the land set to spawn mr. bean
is here mr. bean was an alien the
production company was English well safe
and about 400 million years ago Avalonia
and Lorenza collided together like this
that dramatic collision formed the
Scottish Highlands once as tall as the
Himalayas this map shows the border
where they collided and this is the
border today so is it just a massive
co-inky-dink that the line where the
mega continents crashed into each other
is pretty much exactly where today's
England Scotland border is or Arthur
rocks from 400 million years ago still
shaping the identities of these
countries after all the rocks underneath
us affect what plants can grow what
local animals can eat what building
materials are available and how tasty
the tap water is so perhaps there is
something in it countries countries
isn't it great when a geographical
border actually makes good geographical
sense and who knows maybe 400 million
years from now England and Scotland will
break apart again and Scotland will be
free to pursue a life of full genuine
independence as far away from England as
possible
good luck with that
you know what this place needs a toilet
yes but first a nice decorative map on
the wall
another nice decorative map on the wall
great I'll make one now it looked better
than that in my head
don't worry MA I knew this would happen
what so I prepared my own decorative map
for the wall that's how it looked in my
head how did you do that I found a video
tutorial on how to create beautiful
Illustrated maps combining analog and
digital techniques on Skillshare skills
and skill chef skills yeah
Scott share is an online learning
platform for creative people whether
you're into illustrating beautiful maps
or crafting personal essays with impacts
or learning HTML or drawing faces
figures and clothing Skillshare is a
great place to find video lessons on all
things creatively but you know what
costs even less getting Skillshare for
free if you click on the link in the
description below
you get Skillshare for free for the
first two months the catch is only 500
people can have it so get a move on and
click the link in the description below
do please take the free link because the
more if you click the link the more
money we can get and we can make more
madmen so go to school dodge stroke mad
men to get Skillshare for free for two
months for free doesn't it live in the
place up we're just missing one thing
[Music]